# Docker Networking  

# Must Be Run As Root

This must be stated - almost all commands _must_ be run as root! There is a way to get around this, but there seems to be constant problems with it (the one I ran into revolved around [/var/run/docker.sock](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48957195/how-to-fix-docker-got-permission-denied-issue) which _requires_ you set this file's [chmod](operating_systems/ubuntu/linux_notes?id=changing-permissions) to `666` for every re-set, as well as [adding the user](operating_systems/ubuntu/linux_notes?id=adding-users-to-groups) to the `docker` group). Because of this, I run all commands as root.   

--- 

# Overview  

Networking is critical to a Docker instance; when installed, Docker assumes partial control over the host's network capabilities. This allows Docker to manage host ports, create subnetworks, divvy out IP addresses to containers, map host ports to container ports, etc. Docker can intercept traffic coming to the host and can re-route it to its own containers (which is discussed [here](operating_systems/docker/container_commands?id=run-with-ports)).  

# Networking Identifiers    

Network identifiers seem to be the same as [identifiers for containers](operating_systems/docker/docker_basics?id=identifying-containers) - there is a  <font color="green">UUID</font> _and_ a <font color="green">name</font> associated with it. The <font color="green">UUID</font> is autogenerated when the network is made; it is a random alphanumeric string of 64 characters (the 64 character version is known as the <font color="green">UUID long identifier</font>, but you can reference it with the first 12 characters, which is known as the <font color="green">UUID short identifier</font>).  

---  

# Showing Networks  

To show all networks:  
```
docker network ls
```  

This shows the following:
* The [network ID](operating_systems/docker/networking?id=networking-identifiers) (i.e. UUID).  
* The [network name](operating_systems/docker/networking?id=networking-identifiers).  
* The Driver.  
* The Scope.  


# Creating a Network  

Its possible to create a network and then assign that network to specific containers.  The basic creation command:  
```
docker network create [NETWORK_NAME]
```  
* Do _not_ include the brackets `[]`.  
* You get to decide the `NETWORK_NAME`  

# Removing a Network  

In order to remove a network, run:  
```
docker network rm [NETWORK_NAME]
```  
* Do _not_ include the brackets `[]`.  
* The name is either the [network name or UUID](operating_systems/docker/networking?id=networking-identifiers).  